The Zebra Dun, played by Brownie MacNeil at Austin, Texas, February 19, 1939.
We were camped upon the Pecos at the head of the Cimarron.
But along there comes a stranger, and he stops to argue some.
He looked so very foolish, we begin to look around.
For we thought he was a greenhorn that had just escaped from town.
We asked he'd been to breakfast and he hadn't had a smear.
So he opened up the chuck wagon and bade him have his share.
He took a piece of steak, some biscuits and some beans, and then began to tell his tale of foreign kings and queens.
About the Spanish wars and fighting on the seas, with cannons big as steers and ramrods big as trees.
About Paul Jones, an old fighting son of a gun, who was the grittiest cause that ever pulled a gun.
Now such an educated feller, his thoughts just came and hurt.
He tickled the boys to death with his jaw-breaking words.
He just kept on a-talking till he made the boys all sick.
And they began to look around just how to play a trick.
He said he'd lost his job down on the Santa Fe, and he was going across the plains to strike the Seven-D.
He didn't say how come it's some trouble with the boss, but he said he'd like to borrow a nice fat saddle horse.
This tickled the boys to death.
They laughed down in their sleeves.
Oh, we will lend you a saddle horse just nice and fat as you please.
Oh, sure, he grabbed the lariat and roped the zebra dun.
Turned him over to the stranger and we waited for the fun.
Now, Dunny was an outlaw that had grown so awful wild.
He could fall the white out of the moon whenever he got riled.
Old Dunny stood right still just as if he didn't know until he was saddled and ready for the go.
When the stranger hit the saddle, old Dunny quit the earth, and traveled right straight up for all that he was worth.
A pitchin' and a squealin' and a havin' walleyed fits, his hind feet perpendicular, his front ones in the fits.
We could see the tops of mountains under Dunny every jump.
The stranger he was grown there just like a camel's hump.
The stranger sat upon him and curled his black mustache.
Just like a summer boarder a-waiting for his hash.